Learning Agenda Transcript 
00:00-00:02 
Learning agenda. 

0.03-00:24
That's me, my name is Colin Furness. I'm an assistant professor teaching stream at the Faculty of Information, and I'm also the academic coordinator of the MI Coop program. What we're going to do today? Is to tell you all you need to know for your very first coop course deliverable. It's called the learning agenda, and it's a really, really important document. 

00:25-02:11
Before we get to exactly what a learning agenda is, the first question I wanna be able to address here is what is work integrated learning. We don't wrap our heads around this. Then the concept of our learning agenda isn't going to make a lot of sense. But to answer this question, the first question I want to pose actually is, well, what isn't work integrated learning? It's not job experience to get a job. Let's be clear about that. Job experience is important, and as a lot of you may know when you're out there looking for a job, people like to see what you've done before that matters a lot, but that's a very separate kind of problem or situation than work. Integrated learning. Getting paid to go to school. Some students do have that sense that hey, I can avoid being in class. I can go and I can get paid and I can get my credits done that way. I'd like to ask you to or suggest that if that's how you're feeling is that you question that and say well, what am I really trying to get out of this because it goes right back to the idea of job experience to get a job that's important. Getting paid is important. Those are all fine, but they're different than the goals of the coop program at the Ischool. And the last thing that will isn't is sort of remedial practical learning, because school is too theoretical. Some students have that sense that they're only really going to learn anything at all on the job, and that there's no connection or no meaningful connection between what they're learning in school and then what they're doing on the job. And I'd like to see it suggest. Actually, that is very much the opposite is true. So if you're holding any of these three beliefs, even in a small way, first thing to do, I'd say, is to haul that out on the table and give it a good hard look and say, can I get past that? Can I rethink? That can, I think about work integrated learning as something somewhat different. 

02:12-03:19
So I still haven't told you what I think working integraded learning is rather than give you my definition. CEWIL which is cooperative education and work. Integrated Learning Canada defines it here. They say that work integrated learning is a model and process of experiential education. And here's what's really important. It formally and intentionally integrates what you have studied within a workplace and practice setting. In other words, will includes a partnership between the school, the host. Organization that is the employer and the student. There's a lot going on here. There's three different stakeholders, and there's also a clear statement that it's a model and a process, and it's an integration of education between what you've learned in the class and what you can learn at work. In other words, work. Integrated learning is all about turning the workplace into a classroom, and if you can accept that notion, then getting paid to go to work or job experience to get a job stops making sense. And the learning agenda as a vital tool to propelling you forward really does start to make sense. 

03:20-04:50
So if we've covered what is that? What is working integrated learning the next thing to think about is what is a learning agenda specifically, and I'd say it's kind of three things. The first thing is it's a student driven To Do List. In other words, the only person who can say what's supposed to be on that learning agenda is you. That's really, really important. The second thing is, it's a map of the things that you need to learn, and the steps to get there. The problem with some To Do List is pretty hard to know where to start. Well, a well constructed learning agenda actually makes it very clear not just where to start, but what steps to take and in what order in order to be able to get there. And the final really important characteristic of a learning agenda is it should be considered to be what I call a living document. That is to say, it's not a gun to the head contract. It is not something that you need to check every box or you don't pass. That's the wrong way to look at it. A learning agenda is something that may need to be revisited and revised during the course of your coop placement. That's because the real world can be quite messy. Perhaps the projects that were being discussed when you were hired have morphed or changed or even been replaced by other ones. Between the time you were hired and the time you start, maybe while you're there, a sudden opportunity presents itself that no one could have anticipated in advance. So the important idea of a learning agenda is it's fluid and that it's adaptable to changing situations at work. 

04:51-06:47
There's a little bit of theory around learning agendas, and I think it's a really important theory. Locke and his and his collaborator Latham, and the two of them in the 1960s set about constructing what's now known as goal setting theory, and they started out with a major review of a lot of evidence in terms of what does Goal setting do? How do people actually manage to motivate themselves to get things done, and what are the sorts of things that stand in the way and they had a lot of findings? I boiled them down to three. Instead of making you read Locke, it's it's all getting boiled down to one slide. And yes, you're welcome. The first one is hard, but attainable goals result in better performance than easy goals that may seem obvious, or it may seem counterintuitive, counterintuitive, but the important thing is that when you set goals for yourself that you set them so that they are realistic, but they're just outside of what you could easily do so hard but attainable goals. The next thing, and this is so important, is that the more specific the goal is, the better the performance is. So if you have a goal of sort of trying to be. Your best XY zed. That may be a great sentiment, but if it's not specific it's much less likely to get done and the learning agenda is all about being able to be specific. And on that note, explicit behavioral intentions not just where you want to get to or what you want to have, but exactly what you will do. Your behavioral intention of the things, the activities, the steps you will actually take. That makes the behavior far more likely to happen. So in a nutshell, what Locke and Latham Really had to say was set hard goals be very specific and don't shy away from being very clear about exactly what it is you will do if you do these three things then a learning agenda or any kind of To Do List becomes something that is far far far more likely to succeed. 

06:48-08:40
OK, let's try to come at this question again. Then what is the learning agenda? It sometimes is called a learning contract. If you Google learning agenda, you don't find much. It's mostly under learning contract. I don't like the term contract. We don't like that term at the ischool because it's kind of opposite to what I just finished saying. Learning agenda needs to be something that is a guide, something that is flexible, the concept or mental model of a contract is something that's fixed in stone that you are required to do, and that can't be changed. So whereas a lot of people use the term learning contract. We are very mindfully and purposefully using the term learning agenda and a lot of what we know about learning contracts or learning agendas comes from Knowles. And it's rather dated, but it's still really quite relevant. A learning agenda, in his words, is a self directed process plan with the focus on the adult student as an autonomous learner. Let term autonomous learner actually matters quite a lot. In other words, it really is on you to set those goals and to monitor those goals. The one thing that is not going to happen during Coop. We're not going to check up on your learning agenda. We're not going to audit you. We're not going to put a gun to the head of your supervisor and say. Did these things get done exactly the way that you wanted them to get done? Because that's not how the real world works, so you are expected to be as an emerging professional, an autonomous learner. Very, very important. So that means all the contents need to be determined by you. And if I haven't made it clear already, if you are to ask the question well, what needs to go in here? You're missing the point. In other words, you need to bring that to the table. You need to be the one to decide because only you can decide what is it that you need to learn in order to propel yourself forward in order to have coop be a really, really meaningful experience. 

08:41-09:36
So there are major components of a learning agenda, and it's kind of a hierarchy at the top level of the hierarchy are goals. I just want to talk about the word goals for a moment because people tend to use that word interchangeably with the next level, which is a learning objective. So there's goals that are the highest level, they're objectives underneath each goal. Some people use those words in reverse. Some people use them as synonyms. We don't. We say the goal is the top level, and underneath the goal. Are somewhat more specific objectives beneath the objectives are somewhat more specific activities. Knowles calls them tactics that sounds a bit military to me, so I prefer the word activities that will be undertaken to accomplish each objective. So and then. Finally there is deliverables or evidence that the activity has been completed. We have these four things that sit in essentially a hierarchy. 

09:37-10:53
So let's be really clear about what that hierarchy is. The top level. The goal that's the destination. That's where you want to arrive. That's being able to master a particular skill or becoming really good at doing something else. And if that's where we stopped, Locke is very clear that it's unlikely to actually happen or actually happen effectively. So underneath that broad statement of where we want to arrive. We situate the objective. The objective is a measurable step towards the goal. In other words, it answers the question how do you work toward the goal? So the goal is where you want to get to. The objective is how you want to get there, and then underneath that is the specific activity. What you are doing to achieve the objective. So the activity is what you do. The objective is how you work toward the goal and the goal itself is where you want to arrive. It's very important that these be aligned, and when we look at your learning agendas, because this is a deliverable in your placement course, so it does get graded, we want to see that your goals are answering where questions that your objectives are, answering how questions that they fit underneath the goal that they make sense, and that the activity specifically relates to your objectives. 

10:54-11:50
There are categories of goals that we use at the ischool. There's a number of different ways we might construct these, but we have found this works really well. We can say of all the goals that you might write down on a piece of paper. Some of them will end up being about communication skills. I think that's general because it doesn't matter what concentration you're in, doesn't even matter what program is study you're in doesn't even matter what your job is going to look like. Communication skills cut across all of those things. So broadly speaking, communication skills. The next bucket are professional domain skills. Professional domain skills are not the same as the third one, which is technical or tool proficiencies, so general communication skills, specific professional competencies or domain skills, and then there's technical proficiencies or being able to use tools or other kinds of software. Those are the three different buckets. In other words, every goal that you come up with will fit into one of those three.

11:51-14:04
Let's show you some examples now. So goals, broad statements of desired improvement, so under communication skills I might say being able to present well being able to write well, accepting feedback, well understanding workplace cultural. Effectively. These are high level questions that answer that. Goal question of where do you want to arrive so they're very high level. They're very general, and again, if this was your entire To Do List for your coop placement, it seems to me that you might get none of them really done because there's nothing here that's specific. There's nothing here that actually gives you a sense of what you're going to do, but these are some top level communication skills. Now some professional domain skills could include. Being able to conduct reference interviews well, if you're an LIS student authoring briefing notes, well if you are an information critical information policy student conducting usability tests proficiently. If you're a uxd student, mastering process modeling effectively. If you're an ISD student, and so on and so forth. So notice that. Whereas the communication skills cut across all concentrations, the professional domain skills tend to be fairly specific to a program of study. The third kind of technical tool proficiencies, sometimes cut across so, for example, being able to use graphic design software might actually cut across more than one concentration, but generally technical tool proficiencies are more specific, so mastery of SPSS if you are doing data science mastery of Axure here. For example, if you are in UXD working proficiency of HTML, or Cascading style sheets, that one might cut across more than one or proficiency with access to memory. Let's say if you're an ARMs student. So again, we've got these three different kinds of goals. Some of these examples might pop out to you as yes, that's something I want to do. Or you might think to yourself. No, no, that's not quite me. You need to author those goals yourselves. If there's some things here that work for you, you can use them. But really, it's about thinking through for yourself. What do you need from your work placement in order to be the best professional that you can be. 

14:05-16:26
So, if goals are those high level where statements, remember that objectives answer how. How are you going to get that goal done? There are more concrete. They must be specific enough so that they could be implemented successfully. In other words, you want to be specific enough so that you can check the box that you can say. Yes, I have achieved that objective. So if we have that hierarchy again of goal, objective activity and evidence, some of you may have heard of what are called. Smart goals and I call them smart objectives that goes back to that idea that people use objectives and goals a little bit interchangeably and I I just want to make sure we don't lose sight of that. So I've renamed smart objectives. Smart goals to be smart objectives and smart of course, is an acronym for specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time bounded. So by specific, we've already talked about how that means that you are very clear about what measurable means, that you will know if it's done or not attainable means it can actually happen. In other words, it's within your capabilities. Relevant means that it's relevant to your program of study and to your placement. And time bounded means that it has an end point. It has a finishing point. We might say that becoming a masterful communicator is a life skill that you work on for your whole life. Fair, if we talk about it that way, we would say it is not time bounded. But being able to say I want to be able to present to people without breaking out in a cold sweat. That's something that is time bounded because you would know when you get there, and so if we want to connect these two columns together just to be clear about this, we would start by saying, well, goals are not intended to be specific. Measurable because they're high level statements. They do need to be attainable, and they do need to be relevant. Objectives, on the other hand, do need to be specific. They do need to be measurable. They need to be attainable and relevant, just like goals. Activities need to be specific and measurable, and they need to be time bounded so it's at the level of the activity that we actually introduce time bounded and then evidence again goes back to being specific and measurable. So it's quite a mess of lines. But again, I want to really help you disambiguate and understand the goal is the high level and then the objective, and then the activity, and then the evidence. 

16:27-18:05
So let's have some examples here. An example who might be accepting critical feedback. Well, now that's not a smart objective. In other words, to say it's not specific, it's not measurable. It's not any of those things. OK, so smart objectives under this goal could include, for example, learning key principles for effective listening. How might we do that? Well, we'll get to that because we'll have some activities around that. But for now the objective can simply be learning key principles for effective listening. That is a how statement that gets you where you want to go. Being able to accept critical feedback, well objective #2 might be mastering a positive response to critical feedback. A lot of people tend to get quite defensive and they stop listening and they're too busy formulating and response to really hear what's being said to them. It's actually a very very important skill, but again, objective objectives of learning principles for effective listening and the objective of mastering positive response to feedback are how statements that get you toward that where statement of where you want to be being able to accept. Critical feedback. Well, now it's important to note that identifying resources for effective listening could even be considered an objective, but normally I would say something that is as specific as choosing a book, finding a Coursera course, or other resources that you might be able to leave or toward this. Typically, to me that feels more like an activity that it's very, very specific. But if you have no idea where to get these sorts of things, then maybe it is a higher level objective. And that's something that you need to decide. 

18:06-18:52
So, we talked about goals and we talked about objectives and so now we move to activities that are tasks you undertake. So activities again, are specific, measurable and time bounded. The result in a deliverable or some other evidence of completion. The evidence is for you. The evidence is not for us, they also contribute to the fulfillment of an objective. So some examples could be tapping educational resources. As I just mentioned in the previous slide books. Conferences, courses so and so forth. Engaging personal resources such as mentors or colleagues or other sorts of peers who can help you, possibly even working on a relevant project at your workplace. 

18:53-20:08
So let's start with an example objective now and then. Let's see how the activities fit underneath. So if the example objective is mastering positive response to critical feedback, we could think of maybe three activities. First one is having identified a good practical book recruit a peer to read it with me. That would be very useful, it's fine to read a book. But anyone can read a book. The question is, are you making sense of what's in it? Are you applying it to yourself? Are you having that kind of critical discussion where you can verify? To validate that you really understand what it means. So recruiting a peer to read a book with you would be. It would be a good activity towards this objective second possible activity if there's exercises in the book to practice them. In other words, giving and receiving critical feedback with me from me by me. So these are two possible activities. The third one might be now that you're ready to step outside your head soliciting practical feedback from workplace supervisor and coworkers. So you're learning agenda could literally have an action item on there and activity that says. I'm going to sit down with my coworkers and my placement or with my supervisor and I'm going to ask them proactively for feedback. That's not something people necessarily do if it isn't in their learning plan. That's why that's really, really important. 

20:09-23:16
So we've talked about goals. We've talked about objectives, we've talked about activities and the last piece is the evidence. What tangible thing can you identify as an illustration that you have actually fulfilled the objective with the activity, and so some examples might be writing a report or other work document that reflects that acquired knowledge or capability. That's a great thing to be able to document. Over time, you may forget that you've done these things, so being able to document that is really important for creating a presentation. That you have done or developing the capacity to teach the skill to others is a very, very strong way to demonstrate to yourself that you have accomplished that activity. Some things don't actually have something tangible like that, and so sometimes it needs to be something like a reflective journal entry describing activity and outcomes. And what I say to every student I talk to about this is don't underestimate the value of a reflective journal. You don't have to begin with extensive prose that says, dear diary, this is how I feel today. It can be a log, it can be a log of bullets of things that you've got done and the amazing value of creating and maintaining. And building upon a document like that is that when you then go and interview for another job, once you've graduated by way of interview Prep, you can read that log. You can review that log and you'll remember what you learned and what you did and what you mastered at a level of detail that you would otherwise forget. You review that reflective journal log before your next job interview, and I guarantee you your answers to questions about your capabilities about past experiences will really come alive. Will be specific. They'll be animated. It's an amazing thing to be able to do, so I really encourage you to have a reflective journal. What we could even just call it a log as something that describes the activities you did and the outcomes that came with it. And of course, as many of you are very well aware, various different kinds of deliverables or or projects that are done in a workplace can become portfolio content and portfolio content doesn't have to be something that you can see. Portfolio can be a pithy description of what it is that you did. So while you're going through your coop placement, I always want you to have one eye on. Hmm, how could this fit into My Portfolio? And if you're thinking to yourself well, I'm not a uxd student, I don't need a portfolio. Think again. A portfolio is simply a really fancy word that says some documentation of what you've done that you can show other people. Everybody needs something like that, so that's very, very important to think about. And finally, one little caveat. Into the evidence column in your in your learning agenda? Simply saying, Oh yeah, finish reading the book. Check that box. I like to say that doesn't really count. In other words, finishing reading a book doesn't actually demonstrate that anything was learned. In other words, you could do the activity without ever fulfilling the objective. And so I think that's a really important thing to remember. 

23:17-26:05
So let's do a full on example in your learning agenda. This is what it should look like. You should have each one page, perhaps for every single goal, and you choose the category you state the goal, and then you make a list of objectives, activities, and evidence. This is what you're learning agenda looks like. So let's walk through an example together. Let's say we're going to have a communication goal, so let's circle that. Let's type in a goal, improve my networking skills. That's a really, really nice. Communication goal that I think would apply to most people. We might come up with two objectives. It's really important that goals have more than one objective. So the first one could be connecting with my professional community. OK, again, that's fairly high level, but it's a lot more specific than the goal. It's not smart, that is, it's not time bounded or actionable. Perfecting informational interviews is the other objective, so connecting with my professional community, perfecting informational interviews, so activities along with connecting with my professional community could include these joining, professional association, joining meetups, talking to colleagues for networking opportunities, going to some of your colleagues, and saying how do you meet professionals in your field is an excellent activity. You might be surprised by some of the answers that you get. Under perfecting informational interviews, maybe there's a book I can read about it. Maybe I will set a goal of adding one new contact per month for informational interviews that would be mighty impressive, and I can tell you that if you actually did that and stuck to it, you would be very good at the really important life skill of doing informational interviews. Evidence documented in my reflective journal or my log documented in my CV or resume. Creating, say, a professional contact list. Having journal entries about the interviews I did, including explicit connections with themes in the book that I read. So if we can see everything we talked about so far is being shown on this page, we have that high level goal improving my networking skills and if that was the only thing I need To Do List, I promise you it won't happen. But it's not the only thing because we've broken that down in this case into two very clear objectives. Each objective has multiple activities and each activity has one or more. Pieces of evidence. I would like your learning agendas to look very much like this, and by way of warning, it can start by being kind of frustrating because you might select a goal that's too specific. Or you might have some objectives that are a little bit too broad. It takes a little bit of work to really get it straight that the goal is the how sorry the goal is, the where and the objective is the how and the activity is the what very very important to think about. 

26:06-27:22
OK. For your learning agenda for your coop placement, you should craft six top level goals. You can do more, but six top level goals is already a fair bit of work. One requirement is that you should have at least one goal from each of the three buckets. Communication, professional, domain and technical. What you do with the other three is entirely up to you. Goals need to have at least two objectives if you're struggling. If your goal only has one objective. If all your goals only have one objective, it could be a sign that your objective that your goals rather are not quite broad enough. So that's something to think about. If you have lots of objectives under a goal, then maybe your goal is too broad and could be narrowed down a bit. And the final caveat is that some technical goals may only have one objective, since these tend to be more specific even at the highest level. So if you're struggling with technical goals, that might be one thing that you could say, let yourself off the hook that because technical goals are already tend to be a little bit more specific than broader goals. It may be harder to tease more than one objective at, but it depends. It really is up to you. 

27:23-27:56
And the last thing I want to say is that you may have private personal development goals, and I think that's a good thing. You should develop those as you see fit, but there's a caveat here. You should not disclose anything on a learning agenda to an employer if it's of a very personal or private nature. In other words, you may want to have a separate learning agenda or parts of a learning agenda that you keep to yourself. It's all about you deciding what you're comfortable disclosing, but I think that's really, really important. 

27:57-28:04
Finally, I have some references and further reading if you're interested in that, there's Locke and Latham toward the bottom. There is Knowles. 

28:05-28:44
And if at any time during your creation of your learning agenda for your coop placement that you feel stuck, I invite you to drop me an email. I try and respond really, really quickly. And I wish you luck in your coop placement. Thank you very much for your time and attention. Today you may need to review this again as you're working on your learning agenda, it's sort of thing that can seem easy, but isn't necessarily. I wish you the best in your placement and I look forward to seeing wonderful posters at the end of your Coop on your learning agenda.
